[expo-device] Add expo-device module (#4682)
expo/expo: docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/device.md

---
title: Device
---

Provide information of devices on the application.

## Installation

This API is pre-installed in [managed](../../introduction/managed-vs-bare/#managed-workflow) apps. It is not yet available for [bare](../../introduction/managed-vs-bare/#bare-workflow) React Native apps.

## API

```js

> import { Device } from 'expo';

Reviewer: Should we advertise this way of importing in new documentation?

Author: Would 'import * as Device from 'expo-device';' better than this?

Reviewer 2: what alternative would you suggest?

Reviewer 3: indeed, `import * as Device from 'expo-device'` is preferred. in sdk34 we will remove imports of this style from the expo package

Reviewer 2: What would the alternative be?

```

### Constants

> #### `Device.brand: string`

Reviewer: Would it be possible to make this list more concise (as a list for example?), maybe with some examples? So that users know what's the difference between `brand`, `manafacturer` and `model`

Gets the device brand.

#### `Device.carrier: string`

Gets the carrier name (network operator).

#### `Device.manufacturer: string`

Gets the device manufacturer.

#### `Device.model: string`

> **iOS warning**: The list with device names is maintained by the community and could lag new devices. It is recommended to use `getDeviceId()` since it's more reliable and always up-to-date with new iOS devices. We do accept pull requests that add new iOS devices to the list with device names.

Reviewer: There's no `getDeviceId` 😅

Gets the device OS name.

#### `Device.deviceId: string`

Gets the device ID.

#### `Device.totalDiskCapacity: number`

Gets full disk storage size, in bytes.

#### `Device.totalMemory: number`

Gets the device total memory, in bytes.

#### `Device.uniqueId: string`

Gets the device unique ID.

#### `Device.isTablet: boolean`

Tells if the device is a tablet.

#### `Device.deviceType: string`

Returns the device's type as a string, which will be one of:

- `Handset`
- `Tablet`
- `Tv`
- `Unknown`

#### `Device.supportedABIs: string[]`

Returns a list of supported processor architecture version

**Examples**

```js
Device.supportedABIs; // [ "arm64 v8", "Intel x86-64h Haswell", "arm64-v8a", "armeabi-v7a", "armeabi" ]
```

### Methods

- `Device.hasNotch()`
- `Device.hasSystemFeatureAsync(feature)` (Android only)
- `Device.getIPAddressAsync()`
- `Device.getMACAddressAsync()`
- `Device.isAirplaneModeAsync()` (Android only)
- `Device.isPinOrFingerprintSet()`
- `Device.getFreeDiskStorageAsync()`
- `Device.getUserAgentAsync()`

## Methods

### `Device.hasNotch()`

Tells if the device has a notch.

#### Returns

A boolean that represents the support for notch display.

**Examples**

```js

> const hasNotch = Device.hasNotch();

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import { hasNotch } from 'expo-device';

hasNotch(); // true or false
```

```

### `Device.getUserAgentAsync()`

Gets the device User Agent.

#### Returns

A Promise that resolves to a string of User Agent.

**Examples**

```js
Device.getUserAgentAsync().then(userAgent => {
  //Dalvik/2.1.0 (Linux; U; Android 9; Pixel 2 Build/PQ3A.190505.001)
});
```

### `Device.getFreeDiskStorageAsync()`

Gets available storage size, in bytes.

#### Returns

A promise of string that represents the storage size.

**Examples**

```js
Device.getFreeDiskStorageAsync().then(storage => {
  //'5608296448'
});
```

> ### `Device.getIPAddressAsync()`

Reviewer: Judging by eg. [`Linking.makeUrl`](https://docs.expo.io/versions/v33.0.0/sdk/linking/#linkingmakeurlpath-queryparams) method, I think that abbreviations should end up camelcased, so shouldn't it be `getIpAddressAsync`?

---
title: Device
---

Provide an API to play with the device's system physical information that uniquely associated with the device's hardware and software properties.

## Installation

This API is pre-installed in [managed](../../introduction/managed-vs-bare/#managed-workflow) apps. To use it in a [bare](../../introduction/managed-vs-bare/#bare-workflow) React Native app, follow its [installation instructions](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/master/packages/expo-device).

## API

```js
import * as Device from 'expo-device';
```

### Constants

- `Device.brand: string`

>   Gets the device brand. The consumer-visible brand with which the product/hardware will be associated, if any.

Author: It should be non-null.

  - iOS: `"Apple"`
  - Android: e.g., `"Xiaomi"`

- `Device.manufacturer: string`

  Gets the actual device manufacturer of the product/hardware.

  - iOS: `"Apple"`
  - Android: e.g., `"HTC"`

  Click [Here](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/os/Build) to view Android official documentation about the difference between `brand` and `manufacturer`.

- `Device.modelName: string`

  **iOS warning**: The list of the model name is maintained by the community and could miss latest devices, so it is better to use `modelId` since it unique identifies new iOS devices and are always up-to-date. We accept new pull request that helps to update the device modelName list.

  Gets the device model.

  - iOS: e.g., `"iPhone XS Max"`
  - Android: e.g., `"Pixel 2"`

- `Device.osName: string`

  Gets the device OS name.

  - iOS: e.g., `"iOS"`
  - Android: e.g., `"Android"`

- `Device.modelId: string` (iOS only)

  Gets the device's mobile device codes types (machine id).

  - iOS: e.g., `"iPhone7,2"`

- `Device.totalMemory: number`

>   Gets the device's total memory, in bytes. It means the total memory accessible by the kernel. This is basically the RAM size of the device, not including below-kernel fixed allocations like DMA buffers, RAM for the baseband CPU, etc.

Reviewer 2: It returns `@(0)` if we can't grab the total memory on the objective C side. What about android @vivianzzhu91

>   Gets the device's total memory, in bytes. It means the total memory accessible by the kernel. This is basically the RAM size of the device, not including below-kernel fixed allocations like DMA buffers, RAM for the baseband CPU, etc.

Author: It is a system constant, referenced from here https://developer.android.com/reference/android/app/ActivityManager.MemoryInfo. So I just return this constant and I'm not sure if this would return null or not.

- `Device.isDevice: boolean`

  `true` if the app is running on a device, `false` if running in a simulator or emulator.

> - `Device.deviceType: string`

Reviewer 2: Didn't know that was a thing. Fascinating

  Returns the device's type as a `Device.deviceType` enum.

- `Device.supportedCPUArchitectures: string[]`

  Returns a list of supported processor architecture versions.

  **Examples**

  ```js
  Device.supportedCPUArchitectures; // [ "arm64 v8", "Intel x86-64h Haswell", "arm64-v8a", "armeabi-v7a", "armeabi" ]
  ```

- `Device.designName: string` (Android only)

  Gets the specific configuration or revision of the industrial design.

  - Android: e.g., `"kminilte"`

- `Device.systemBuildId: string` (Android only)

  Gets the build ID string meant for displaying to the user

  - Android: e.g., `"PSR1.180720.075"`

- `Device.productName: string` (Android only)

>   Gets the device's overall product name. Chosen by the device implementer containing the development name or code name of the device.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  The device's overall product name chosen by the device implementer containing the development name or code name of the device.
```

  - Android: e.g., `"kminiltexx"`

- `Device.platformApiLevel: number` (Android only)

  Gets the SDK version of the software currently running on this hardware device. This value never changes while a device is booted, but it may increase when the hardware manufacturer provides an OTA update. Click [here](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/os/Build.VERSION_CODES.html) to see all possible version codes and corresponding versions.

  - Android: e.g., `19`

- `Device.osVersion: string`

  Gets the user-visible os version number.

  - iOS: e.g., `12.3.1`
  - Android: e.g., `4.0.3`

- `Device.deviceName: string`

  A human-readable name for the device type.

  - eg., `"Vivian's iPhone XS"`

- `Device.osBuildFingerprint: string` (Android only)

  A string that uniquely identifies this build. It must follow the template:

  $(BRAND)/$(PRODUCT)/$(DEVICE)/$(BOARD):$(VERSION.RELEASE)/$(ID)/$(VERSION.INCREMENTAL):$(TYPE)/\$(TAGS)

  - `"google/sdk_gphone_x86/generic_x86:9/PSR1.180720.075/5124027:user/release-keys"`

> - `Device.osBuildId: string`

Reviewer 4: Let's differentiate this more from the other build ID:
```suggestion
- `Device.osInternalBuildId: string`
```

Also, move this below `osBuildId` so they are grouped.

>   A string that identifies the build number of the operating system.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  The internal build ID of the OS running on the device. On Android, this corresponds to `Build.ID`. On iOS, this is the same value as [`Device.osBuildId`](#deviceosbuildid).
```

>   - `"MMB29K"`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - Android: e.g.,`"MMB29K"`
  - iOS: e.g., `"16F203"`
```

## Methods

> ### `Device.getPlatformFeaturesAsync()` (Android Only)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### `Device.getPlatformFeaturesAsync()` (Android only)
```

> Get a list of features that are available on the system.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Get a list of features that are available on the system. The feature names are platform-specific.
```

#### Returns

> A Promise that resolves to an array of strings, each containing the name of the available feature on the current device system.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A Promise that resolves to an array of strings, each of which is a platform-specific name of an available feature on the current device.
```

**Examples**

```js
await Device.getPlatformFeaturesAsync().then(allFeatures => {
  // Array [
  // "android.software.adoptable_storage",
  // "android.hardware.sensor.accelerometer",
  // "android.software.backup",
  // "android.hardware.touchscreen"
  // ]
});
```

> ### `Device.hasPlatformFeatureAsync(feature)` (Android Only)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### `Device.hasPlatformFeatureAsync(feature)` (Android only)
```

Tells if the device has a specific system feature. Can get all available system features in `Device.getSystemFeatureAsync()`.

#### Arguments

- **feature (_string_)** -- A string of the feature we want to know that the device has.

#### Returns

> Returns a `Promise<boolean>` that resolves the `boolean` value for whether the device has the system feature passed to the function.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Returns a `Promise<boolean>` that resolves to a `boolean` value for whether the device has the specified system feature.
```

**Examples**

```js
await Device.hasPlatformFeatureAsync('amazon.hardware.fire_tv'); // true or false
```

> ### `Device.getMaxMemoryAsync()` (Android Only)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### `Device.getMaxMemoryAsync()` (Android only)
```

> Returns the maximum amount of memory that the Java virtual machine will attempt to use. If there is no inherent limit then the value [Long.MAX_VALUE](https://developer.android.com/reference/java/lang/Long.html#MAX_VALUE) will be returned.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Returns the maximum amount of memory that the Java virtual machine will attempt to use. If there is no inherent limit then `Number.MAX_SAFE_INTEGER` is returned.
```

JS numbers can't fit Long.MAX_VALUE. Additionally, when possible, we want to write the documentation in terms of JS rather than Java. Make sure to change the implementation so that we get this behavior.

#### Returns

> Returns a Promise that resolves the maximum available memory that the Java vm will use, in bytes.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Returns a Promise that resolves the maximum available memory that the Java VM will use, in bytes.
```

What does this method do on web and on iOS?

Reviewer 2: It's listed as an Android only method at the moment.

**Examples**

```js
Device.getMaxMemoryAsync().then(maxMemory => {
  // 402653184
});
```

> ### `Device.isSideLoadingEnabled()` (Android Only)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### `Device.isSideLoadingEnabled()` (Android only)
```

> Whether applications can be installed for this user via the system's [Intent#ACTION_INSTALL_PACKAGE](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/content/Intent.html#ACTION_INSTALL_PACKAGE) mechanism.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Returns whether applications can be installed for this user via the system's [Intent#ACTION_INSTALL_PACKAGE](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/content/Intent.html#ACTION_INSTALL_PACKAGE) mechanism rather than through the OS's default app store, like Google Play.
```

#### Returns

Returns a Promise that resolves to a boolean that represents whether the calling package is allowed to request package installation.

**Examples**

```js
Device.isSideLoadingEnabled().then({
  // true or false
});
```

### `Device.getUptimeAsync()`

Gets the uptime since the last reboot of the device, in milliseconds.

#### Returns

> Returns a promise that resolves to a number that represents the milliseconds since last reboot, not counting time spent in deep sleep.

Reviewer 4: Is the note about deep sleep true for all platforms (Android, iOS, web) or just some of them?

Author: iOS also only counts only the time being turned on.

**Examples**

```js
Device.getUptimeAsync().then(uptime => {
  // 4371054
});
```

### `Device.isRootedExperimentalAsync()` (Android only)

> Checks whether the device has been rooted. It is not surely reliable because it's hard to test all rooted devices thoroughly.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Checks whether the device has been rooted. It is not completely reliable because it's hard to test all rooted devices thoroughly.
```

> because it's hard to test all rooted devices thoroughly.

I don't understand what this means and what the specific challenges are. Think about this from the perspective of a finance app trying to prevent fraud and explain the threat model to them.

#### Returns

> Returns a promise that resolves to a boolean that whether this device is rooted.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Returns a promise that resolves to a boolean that specifies whether this device is rooted. On iOS and web, the boolean is always `false`.
```

(or specify some other behavior for non-Android platforms)

---
title: Device
---

Provides access to system information about the physical device, such as its manufacturer and model.

## Installation

This API is pre-installed in [managed](../../introduction/managed-vs-bare/#managed-workflow) apps. To use it in a [bare](../../introduction/managed-vs-bare/#bare-workflow) React Native app, follow its [installation instructions](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/master/packages/expo-device).

## API

```js
import * as Device from 'expo-device';
```

### Constants

- `Device.brand: string`

>   Gets the device brand. The consumer-visible brand of the product/hardware.

Author: Sure! Maybe we should stick to the constant value itself and remove all verbs.

  Gets the device's total memory, in bytes. This is the total memory accessible to the kernel, but not necessarily to a single app. This is basically the amount of RAM the device has, not including below-kernel fixed allocations like DMA buffers, RAM for the baseband CPU, etc…

- `Device.isDevice: boolean`

  `true` if the app is running on a real device, `false` if running in a simulator or emulator.

- `Device.supportedCpuArchitectures: string[]`

  Returns a list of supported processor architecture versions. The device expects the binaries it runs to be compiled for one of these architectures. The returned list will be `null` if the supported architectures could not be determined.

  **--**Examples**

  ```js
  Device.supportedCpuArchitectures; // [ "arm64 v8", "Intel x86-64h Haswell", "arm64-v8a", "armeabi-v7a", "armeabi" ]
  ```

- `Device.designName: string | null` (Android only)

  Gets the specific configuration or name of the industrial design. It represents the device's name when it was designed during manufacturing into mass production. On Android, it corresponds to `Build.DESIGN`.

  - Android: e.g., `"kminilte"`

- `Device.productName: string` (Android only)

>   The device's overall product name chosen by the device implementer containing the development name or code name of the device. Corresponds to [`Build.PRODUCT`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/os/Build#PRODUCT).

Author: This is already linked with android docs about `Build.PRODUCT`.

In Android, it's implemented in a way to find all possible files paths that contain the `"su"` executable but some devices that are not rooted may also have this executable. Therefore, there's no guarantee that this method will always return correctly.

On iOS, the jailbreak checks outlined on (https://www.theiphonewiki.com/wiki/Bypassing_Jailbreak_Detection) are used to detect if a device is rooted/jailbroken. However, since there are closed-sourced solutions such as [xCon](https://www.theiphonewiki.com/wiki/XCon) that aim to hook every known method and function responsible for informing an application of a jailbroken device, this method may not reliable to detect devices that have xCon or similar packages installed.  

#### Returns

Returns a promise that resolves to a boolean that specifies whether this device is rooted. On web, the boolean is always `false`.

**Examples**

```js
await Device.isRootedExperimentalAsync();
  // false/true
```

> ### `Device.getDeviceTypeAsync()`

Author: James mentioned about the phone might be a tablet now, so it might change? https://github.com/expo/expo/pull/4682#discussion_r302638991

  - Android: e.g., `"Pixel 2"`

  **Note for iOS**: The list of model names is manually maintained because iOS does not programmatically expose model names. This manual list may not always have all of the latest devices. Depending on your use case, it may be better to use `Device.modelId`, which is always defined, even for the latest devices.

* `Device.osName: string`

  The name of the OS running on the device.

  - iOS: e.g., `"iOS"` or `"iPadOS"`
  - Android: e.g., `"Android"`

* `Device.modelId: string | null` (iOS only)

  The internal model ID of the device. This is useful for programmatically identifying the type of device and is not a human-friendly string.

  - iOS: e.g., `"iPhone7,2"`

* `Device.totalMemory: number`

  Gets the device's total memory, in bytes. This is the total memory accessible to the kernel, but not necessarily to a single app. This is basically the amount of RAM the device has, not including below-kernel fixed allocations like DMA buffers, RAM for the baseband CPU, etc...

* `Device.isDevice: boolean`

  `true` if the app is running on a real device, `false` if running in a simulator or emulator.

* `Device.supportedCpuArchitectures: string[]`

>   Returns a list of supported processor architecture versions. The device expects the binaries it runs to be compiled for one of these architectures. The returned list will be empty if the supported architectures could not be determined.

Author: You are right, it should be null if there's none, although it's not specified in the official docs.

  - Android: e.g., `19`

* `Device.osVersion: string`

  The human-readable OS version string. Note that the version string may not always contain three numbers separated by dots.

  - iOS: e.g., `12.3.1`
  - Android: e.g., `4.0.3`

* `Device.deviceName: string`

  The human-readable name of the device, which may be set by the device's user.

  - e.g., `"Vivian's iPhone XS"`

* `Device.osBuildFingerprint: string | null` (Android only)

  A string that uniquely identifies the build of the currently running system OS. On Android, it follows this template:

  $(BRAND)/$(PRODUCT)/$(DEVICE)/$(BOARD):$(VERSION.RELEASE)/$(ID)/$(VERSION.INCREMENTAL):$(TYPE)/\$(TAGS)

  - e.g., `"google/sdk_gphone_x86/generic_x86:9/PSR1.180720.075/5124027:user/release-keys"`

## Methods

### `Device.getPlatformFeaturesAsync()` (Android only)

Get a list of features that are available on the system. The feature names are platform-specific.

#### Returns

A Promise that resolves to an array of strings, each of which is a platform-specific name of an available feature on the current device.

**Examples**

```js

> await Device.getPlatformFeaturesAsync().then(allFeatures => {

Author: We decide to go for the preferred `await`!

---
title: Device
---

> Provide information of devices on the application.

Reviewer 4: Be more detailed: what kind of information? When would you want to use this module and continue reading the rest of this document?

## Installation

> This API is pre-installed in [managed](../../introduction/managed-vs-bare/#managed-workflow) apps. It is not yet available for [bare](../../introduction/managed-vs-bare/#bare-workflow) React Native apps.

Reviewer 4: (What do we need to do to make it available for the bare workflow?)

## API

```js
import * as Device from 'expo-device';
```

### Constants

- `Device.brand: string`

  Gets the device brand.

  - iOS: `"Apple"`

>   - Android: eg. `"Xiaomi"`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - Android: e.g., `"Xiaomi"`
```

- `Device.carrier: string`

>   Gets the carrier name (network operator).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  Gets the carrier name (network operator).
```

- `Device.manufacturer: string`

  Gets the device manufacturer.

  - iOS: `"Apple"`
  - Android: eg. `"Google"`

- `Device.model: string`

>   **iOS warning**: The list with device names is maintained by the community and could lag new devices. It is recommended to use `deviceId` since it's more reliable and always up-to-date with new iOS devices. We do accept pull requests that add new iOS devices to the list with device names.

Reviewer 4: This looks copied straight from react-native-device-info -- write original text.

  Gets the device model.

>   - iOS: eg. `"iPhone XS Max"`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - iOS: e.g., `"iPhone XS Max"`
```

>   - Android: eg. `"Pixel 2"`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - Android: e.g., `"Pixel 2"`
```

- `Device.systemName: string`

>   Gets the device OS name.

Reviewer 4: Provide examples

- `Device.deviceId: string`

>   Gets the device ID.

Reviewer 4: What is the "device ID"?

- `Device.totalMemory: number`

>   Gets the device total memory, in bytes.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  Gets the device's total memory, in bytes.
```

- `Device.uniqueId: string`

  Gets the device unique ID.

- `Device.isTablet: boolean`

  Tells if the device is a tablet.

- `Device.deviceType: string`

>   Returns the device's type as a string, which will be one of:

Reviewer 2: @ide 
https://github.com/expo/expo/pull/4682/files/e5149609e16ee6e0127ce34cb685a38d9cd89f3b#r296694851

Previously, I used an enum system but @sjchmiela suggested that I remove it. Should I bring back the enum?

  - `Handset`
  - `Tablet`
  - `Tv`
  - `Unknown`

- `Device.supportedABIs: string[]`

>   Returns a list of supported processor architecture version

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  Returns a list of supported processor architecture versions.
```

  **Examples**

  ```js
  Device.supportedABIs; // [ "arm64 v8", "Intel x86-64h Haswell", "arm64-v8a", "armeabi-v7a", "armeabi" ]
  ```

> ### Methods

Reviewer 4: This section seems redundant with the actual method documentation below -- remove?

- `Device.hasNotch()`
- `Device.hasSystemFeatureAsync(feature)` (Android only)
- `Device.getIpAddressAsync()`
- `Device.getMACAddressAsync()`
- `Device.isAirplaneModeEnabledAsync()` (Android only)
- `Device.isPinOrFingerprintSet()`
- `Device.getFreeDiskStorageAsync()`
- `Device.getUserAgentAsync()`
- `Device.getTotalDiskCapacityAsync()`
- `Device.getSerialNumberAsync()` (Android only)

## Methods

### `Device.hasNotch()`

Tells if the device has a notch.

#### Returns

> A boolean that represents the support for notch display.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A boolean value that specifies whether the device's main display has a notch.
```

**Examples**

```js
import { hasNotch } from 'expo-device';

hasNotch(); // true or false
```

### `Device.getUserAgentAsync()`

Gets the device User Agent.

#### Returns

A Promise that resolves to a string of User Agent.

**Examples**

```js
Device.getUserAgentAsync().then(userAgent => {
  //Dalvik/2.1.0 (Linux; U; Android 9; Pixel 2 Build/PQ3A.190505.001)
});
```

### `Device.getFreeDiskStorageAsync()`

Gets available storage size, in bytes.

#### Returns

A promise of number that represents the storage size.

**Examples**

```js
Device.getFreeDiskStorageAsync().then(storage => {
  //5608296448
});
```

> ### `Device.getTotalDiskCapacityAsync()`

Author: How about the `totalMemory` in the constants? Shall we move that as well?

Gets full disk storage size, in bytes.

#### Returns

A promise of number that represents the full disk storage size.

**Examples**

```js
Device.getTotalDiskCapacityAsync().then(storage => {
  //17179869184
});
```

### `Device.getIpAddressAsync()`

> Gets the device current IP address.

Reviewer 4: Also seems like it'd be more apropos to put the IP- & MAC-address methods into a networking module. Perhaps the airplane-mode check belongs there too. (@brentvatne what do you think about creating a derivative of r-n-netinfo like `expo-network-info` so that (a) we don't need to keep up to date with netinfo and also can put the IP/MAC-address methods in there?)

#### Returns

A Promise that resolves to a string of IP address.

**Examples**

```js
Device.getIpAddressAsync().then(ip => {
  // "92.168.32.44"
});
```

### `Device.getMACAddressAsync(interfaceName?: string)`

Gets the network adapter MAC address.

#### Arguments (Android Only)

> - **interfaceName (_string_)** -- A string representing interface name (`eth0`, `wlan0`) or `null`, meaning the method should fetch MAC address of the first available interface. (On iOS this argument is ignored.)

Reviewer 4: What about `undefined`?

Author: I just modified the changes to the java code to reject the promise with `undefined interface name` if such interfaceName is not available on `NetworkInterface.getNetworkInterfaces()`.

> - **interfaceName (_string_)** -- A string representing interface name (`eth0`, `wlan0`) or `null`, meaning the method should fetch MAC address of the first available interface. (On iOS this argument is ignored.)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **interfaceName (_string_)** -- A string representing interface name (`eth0`, `wlan0`) or `null`, meaning the method should fetch the MAC address of the first available interface. (On iOS this argument is ignored.)
```

#### Returns

> A Promise that resolves to a string of the network adapter MAC address or empty string if there's no such address matching the interface.

Reviewer 4: - This should return null instead of an empty string in the edge case scenarios.
- What if there is no interface with the given name?

Author: I'll return null if the mac address is null with the given interface name.
If there's no matching mac address with such interface name passed in, we'll reject the promise with message `Undefined interface name`.

**Examples**

```js
//iOS
Device.getMACAddressAsync().then(mac => {
  // "E5:12:D8:E5:69:97"
});

//Android
Device.getMACAddressAsync('wlan0').then(mac => {
  // "E5:12:D8:E5:69:97"
});
```

### `Device.getSerialNumberAsync()` (Android only)

Gets the device serial number.

> Would prompt the user for permission to read the phone to access the phone number.

Reviewer 4: A "phone number" sounds like it returns `(xxx) xxx-xxxx` -- reword this and be more specific and clear.

#### Returns

A Promise that resolves to a string of serial number of current device.

**Examples**

```js
Device.getSerialNumberAsync().then(serialNumber => {
  // FA81H1A01245
});
```

### `Device.isAirplaneModeEnabledAsync()` (Android Only)

Tells if the device is in airplane mode.

#### Returns

Returns a Promise that resolves to the `boolean` value for whether the device is in airplane mode or not.

**Examples**

```js

> Device.isAirplaneModeEnabledAsync().then(airPlaneModeOn => {

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Device.isAirplaneModeEnabledAsync().then(airplaneModeOn => {
```

  // false
});
```

### `Device.hasSystemFeatureAsync(feature)` (Android Only)

> Tells if the device has a specific system feature.

Reviewer 4: What does this mean? It's not clear what "system feature" means and how you would figure out what argument values to pass in.

Author: I added another function called `getSystemAvailableFeaturesAsync` to return all available system features on the device as a string[]. Will add it to the docs as well.

#### Arguments

- **feature (_string_)** -- A string of the feature we want to know that the device has.

#### Returns

Returns a `Promise<boolean>` that resolves the `boolean` value for whether the device has the system feature passed to the function.

**Examples**

```js
await Device.hasSystemFeatureAsync('amazon.hardware.fire_tv'); // true or false
```

> ### `Device.isPinOrFingerprintSet()`

Reviewer 4: This method name seems short-sighted e.g. what if the device has other types of biometrics like Face ID for the lock screen?

Author: Renamed to `hasLocalAuthenticationAsync`.

> Tells if a PIN number or a fingerprint was set for the device.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Tells if a PIN or a fingerprint was set for the device.
```

> Tells if a PIN number or a fingerprint was set for the device.

Reviewer 4: In what contexts is the PIN / fingerprint / etc used? The lock screen? Payments? Be more comprehensive.

#### Returns

> Returns a Promise that resolves the `boolean` value for whether the device has set a Pin or Fingerprint.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Returns a Promise that resolves the `boolean` value for whether the device has set a PIN or fingerprint to unlock the device.
```

## Installation

This API is pre-installed in [managed](../../introduction/managed-vs-bare/#managed-workflow) apps. It is not yet available for [bare](../../introduction/managed-vs-bare/#bare-workflow) React Native apps.

## API

```js
import * as Device from 'expo-device';
```

### Constants

- `Device.brand: string`

  Gets the device brand.

  - IOS: "Apple"
  - Android: "Xiaomi"

- `Device.carrier: string`

  Gets the carrier name (network operator).

- `Device.manufacturer: string`

  Gets the device manufacturer.

  - IOS: "Apple"
  - Android: "Google"

- `Device.model: string`

  **iOS warning**: The list with device names is maintained by the community and could lag new devices. It is recommended to use `deviceId` since it's more reliable and always up-to-date with new iOS devices. We do accept pull requests that add new iOS devices to the list with device names.

  Gets the device model.

  - IOS: "iPhone XS Max"
  - Android: "Pixel 2"

- `Device.serialNumber: string` (Android Only)

  Gets the device serial number.

- `Device.systemName: string`

  Gets the device OS name.

- `Device.deviceId: string`

  Gets the device ID.

> - `Device.totalMemory: number`

Author: It's a stupid error I made during the test. Sorry about that!

#### Examples

```js
Device.modelName; // iOS: "iPhone XS Max"; Android: "Pixel 2"
```

**Note for iOS**: The list of model names is manually maintained because iOS does not programmatically expose model names. This manual list may not always have all of the latest devices. Depending on your use case, it may be better to use `Device.modelId`, which is always defined, even for the latest devices.

### `Device.totalMemory`

The device's total memory, in bytes. This is the total memory accessible to the kernel, but not necessarily to a single app. This is basically the amount of RAM the device has, not including below-kernel fixed allocations like DMA buffers, RAM for the baseband CPU, etc…

#### Examples

```js
Device.totalMemory; // 17179869184
```

### `Device.isDevice`

`true` if the app is running on a real device, `false` if running in a simulator or emulator.

### `Device.deviceName`

The human-readable name of the device, which may be set by the device's user.

#### Examples

```js
Device.deviceName; // "Vivian's iPhone XS"
```

### `Device.deviceYearClass`

> The [device year class](https://github.com/facebook/device-year-class) of this device.

Author: It shall be `null` since there's not a reliable way to get the `deviceYearClass` on web. Will add the docs.

#### Examples

```js
Device.platformApiLevel; // iOS: null; Android: 19
```

### `Device.osBuildFingerprint`

**Android only.** A string that uniquely identifies the build of the currently running system OS. On Android, it follows this template:

`$(BRAND)/$(PRODUCT)/$(DEVICE)/$(BOARD):$(VERSION.RELEASE)/$(ID)/$(VERSION.INCREMENTAL):$(TYPE)/\$(TAGS)`

#### Examples

```js
Device.osBuildFingerprint; // iOS: null; Android: "google/sdk_gphone_x86/generic_x86:9/PSR1.180720.075/5124027:user/release-keys"
```

### `Device.designName`

**Android only.** The specific configuration or name of the industrial design. It represents the device's name when it was designed during manufacturing into mass production. On Android, it corresponds to [`Build.DEVICE`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/os/Build#DEVICE).

#### Examples

```js
Device.designName; // iOS: null; Android: "kminilte"
```

> ### `Device.productName`

Reviewer 5: if we're sure it really does serve the same purpose as `modelId` (a unique identifier for the device's hardware model) then I think folding it into `modelId` makes sense. I wasn't able to find a concrete explanation of what this field means to Android, though, and unless we're really sure, I'm inclined to think that it's better to keep them separate since they will both be such platform-specific values.
